In the last video we saw that we can get into some really big trouble if we ever successfully save a
record to the database and then fail to emit an event describing that record we just saved.
So we would not update this other database or this other service over here, and a user would see some
really strange data inside of our app.
So how can we solve this?
Well, luckily, there's a somewhat straightforward approach to this, pretty straightforward.
And it's going to work vast majority of the time to make sure that we don't run into any really big
issues.
So here's the idea.
So as in the diagram we were just looking at in the code that we currently have, we have seen that
whenever we save record to the database, we're then going to immediately emit an event or publish it
over to our event bus to solve this whole issue.
Rather than emitting an event over to the event bus, we're going to instead save that event into our
database.
So we're going to still take some record in this case, a transaction or whatever, a ticket, whatever
it is, save it into our database and we're going to simultaneously take the event that we want to emit.
And rather than emitting it, we're going to save it into some kind of events collection inside of our
database as well.
Then along with that event, we're going to record some kind of flag on whether the event has actually
been published.
When we first saved this thing into the database, no, the event has not yet been published.
So we would say no, it has not been sent.
Then inside of some separate process or some separate piece of code, something outside of our root
handler, we can then have some code that is watching this events collection and it can take note of
any time we save a new event into it.
Any time we save a new event into this events collection, this separate piece of code can then extract
that event, essentially pull it out of that collection and publish it off to nets.
Once it successfully gets published, we can then update this sent flag over to.
Yes, this event has been published.
So this kind of two stage approach is going to go a long way to solving this entire issue.
If there's ever some issue connecting to our database, well then we will fail to save this transaction
and the event.
And so we will not have any data integrity issues.
If Nats is down or if our connection to Nats is down for some crazy reason, we can still save the ticket
to the database or save the transaction to the database, save the event, and then hopefully at some
future point in time when our Nats connection comes back up, this separate piece of code or process
or whatever else can still pull this event out and publish it off to Nats.
This approach really makes sure that we're not going to run into this issue where we save a record and
fail to publish some data around it.
There is one other thing to imagine.
However, there might be some kind of crazy possibility where we successfully save this transaction
in and then maybe fail to save the event.
Maybe we fail to save the event because there is some kind of database constraint or something like
that.
So we really need to make sure that whenever we save a transaction, if that gets saved, we have to
make sure that the event gets successfully saved as well.
And of saving either things, things fail, then we need to make sure that we undo all the changes that
we have made to the database.
So in other words, if we successfully save the transaction but not the event, we need to make sure,
sure we roll back saving the transaction.
And if we save the transaction or save the event but not the transaction, we need to make sure we roll
back saving the event as well.
So to do something like this, a lot of databases have something like this already built in.
Even MongoDB does.
This is the idea of something called a database transaction.
Now, let me pause right here and say that we have the word transaction on this diagram twice.
And these are two very different transactions.
So inside of this database, this transactions collection, is talking about a user depositing some
money or something like that.
That is some very application specific behavior.
A lot of databases, on the other hand.
So this is the other use of the word transaction.
A lot of databases implement a feature called a transaction, and a database transaction is something
that allows us to say there is a set of changes that we want to make to our database and if any of these
changes fail, do not make any of the changes.
So we can wrap up saving this record and saving the event inside of a database transaction and of saving
either of these things fails.
The database will automatically roll back all these changes.
So a database transaction will ensure that we always save the record and the event along with it successfully
or both them will fail.
So again, that's how we're going to solve this issue.
Now, you might recall earlier on inside this course, I said that I wanted to build this application
as realistically and production grade as possible, but that we were going to cut one or two corners.
So this entire system right here of saving an event into the database and publishing it later on and
this entire idea of a database transaction, this is where I'm kind of drawing the line for the course.
We are not going to implement this inside of our application just because it adds in a pretty good amount
of complexity.
And to be honest with you, I don't really anticipate us to ever really have to deal with an issue around
saving a record to the database and then possibly not successfully saving some or publishing some information
over to nets.
So I just don't really think we are going to experience this issue inside of our application.
And I don't really expect that we will ever even be able to effectively test that or test this realistically
as well.
We could definitely write some kind of automated test to make sure that this thing works as expected,
but I just don't really expect us to be able to test it in any realistic scenario.
So we are not going to implement this inside this application.
But I just wanted you to know that this is a concern and it's something that you might want to write
some code to handle.
Again, we could save it or deal with this issue by saving the record and the event at the same time
have the separate process to pull events out of that events collection, publish them off to nets.
And we would probably want to also make sure that we wrap up saving the record and the event inside
of some transaction as well.
Ooh.
Okay.
So that's that, as usual.
Quick pause right here.
Continue in just a minute.